Since we're already talking about the load balancer,
let's go ahead and add the necessary code to support a load balancer in our script.
But before we do, let's take a look at the graphic one more time.
This is the component that we're adding now, the load balancer.
We have our web applications that are running in private subnets.
Now, we're going to deploy the load balancer inside our BBC.
So it doesn't matter that I have an application running in the private subnets,
because everything in the BBC we already said that there's
a route that permits traffic and all directions within the BBC.
So as long as we do that, that's fine.
However, the load balancer is going to be on the public side,
meaning that the load balancer itself is going to be
visible from the outside world which is what we want in this case.
We'll go back to our reference.
I need to remember to add the target group we removed from the scaling group.
So it's probably going to update as soon as we take care of that.
Now, we're going to add the necessary components for the load balancer,
which include a target group,
a listener and some other details which we're going to go over slowly in a second.
Let me first copy this content to our file.
I'll hit copy and I'll go to our document.
I'll hit paste.
Let's make sure the YAML is properly formatted.
This looks good.
I'll run an update first to make sure everything's fine.
Then, we're going to explain each one of the concepts that we just introduced.
Okay, it's running now, so let's go.
Starting from the bottom here,
you see we have something known as a targeted group which was
a property of the auto-scaling group.
Let me expand this window a little bit better.
The main components that you see here is what I call a health check.
What this is going to do is is going to go to
port 8080 of the instances of the auto-scaling group.
It's going to check for an HTTP response.
Usually, HTTP code 200 means everything is okay,
so this is the default behavior here.
The path that it's going to check is
the slash or whatever is on the main page of that web server.
So what we're saying here is if we
reach for this machine and we actually get a web page and everything is fine,
so the load balancer will start passing user requests into this machine.
If that's not the case, the load balancer,
because of this criteria will declare that service unhealthy,
and then the auto-scaling we'll take it from there,
and eliminate it and respond a new one.
Now, when and how does this happen?
That's what all the numbers that you see on the screen, that's what they mean.
For example, unhealthy count you see is set to five.
What that means is if I retry or if the load balancer
retries five times and then does not get an HTTP 200 code,
saying that everything is okay,
it will declare it unhealthy.
That happens in an interval set to 10 seconds.
Now, timeout is set to eight seconds.
A timeout is when we send a request to
a web server and we don't get a yes or no or are you there.
So in that case, in eight seconds it will be consider an unhealthy response.
Now, for healthy, we have a little smaller threshold.
We just have two, that means that,
if you get two valid responses from a server,
each one separated by the interval which is ten seconds,
then they will be declared healthy and will start receiving
traffic and of course the BBC ID of where this resource is to be created.
Now, this application load balancer requires obviously
the listener that is going to send traffic to that target group that we talked about,
and it needs a path to listen to.
So if you have application one or slash application two in the same load balancer,
you can do that and you can change that here.
In this case, we only have one.
So we just use the slash or main route.
When you go to your business.com,
your business.com slash and nothing after the slash,
you don't need the slash,
that would basically route to just this one target group of web servers.
The service port in this case is port 80.
It could be port 443,
which would be secure HTTP.
That's another option that you have.
But for that, you need a security certificate, an SSL certificate.
Finally, the load balancer resource itself which is going to ask for a specific subnets.
In this case, we're providing subnet 1 and subnet
2 as the subnets for this load balancer.
Now, why is that?
It is because the load balancer itself is not a single point of failure.
The load balancer will have a single entry point into your web application.
However, itself is not a single point of failure.
It will have internally more than one copy.
So that if one of them dies,
you still provide your service.